Overhaul custom authz policy provider article (#37379)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authorization/custom-authorization-policy-providers.md

* A standard user policy that requires an authenticated user with a `Status` claim of `Active`.
* A manager policy that requires the `Manager` role with a `Department` claim of `Sales`.

```csharp
public Task<AuthorizationPolicy?> GetFallbackPolicyAsync()
{
    var standardUserPolicy = new AuthorizationPolicyBuilder()
        .RequireAuthenticatedUser()
        .RequireClaim("Status", "Active")
        .Build();

    var managerPolicy = new AuthorizationPolicyBuilder()
        .RequireRole("Manager")
        .RequireClaim("Department", "Sales")
        .Build();

    var combinedPolicy = AuthorizationPolicy.Combine(standardUserPolicy, managerPolicy);

    return Task.FromResult<AuthorizationPolicy?>(combinedPolicy);
}
```

## Custom authorization attribute

> The recommended approach for applying policies in concert with a custom policy provider is to use a strongly-typed <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizeAttribute>. A custom attribute implementation maps arguments into a string that are used to retrieve a corresponding authorization policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended approach for applying policies in concert with a custom policy provider is to use a strongly-typed <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizeAttribute>. A custom attribute implementation maps arguments into a string that's used to retrieve a corresponding authorization policy.
```
Very minor: changed to "that's used," for subject-verb agreement.

For example, an app might require policy-based checks for building room numbers or user ages, where it doesn't make sense to create policies for building room numbers or ages with many <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationOptions.AddPolicy%2A> calls. These scenarios are best implemented by passing a parameter that represents room numbers or ages to a custom `[Authorize]` attribute backed by a custom authorization policy provider. The custom policy provider receives the parameter value and dynamically creates a single policy to determine if authorization requirements are met. Using this approach, you avoid creating dozens or even hundreds of individual, explicit authorization policies.

Other scenarios where a custom policy provider is useful include:

* To dynamically, flexibly determine authorization requirements based on complex logic.
* To create policies at runtime based on information from an external data source, such as a database.
* When an external service is used to provide policy evaluation.

## Sample code

> The Blazor Web App sample for this article is the [`BlazorWebAppAuthorization` sample app (`dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples` GitHub repository)](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/tree/main/security/authorization/BlazorWebAppAuthorization) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample)). The sample app uses seeded accounts to demonstrate the examples in this article. For more information, see the sample's README file (`README.md`).

Reviewer 2: The sample doesn't contain `Properties/launchSettings.json`. The README's `dotnet run -lp https` therefore starts in Production and skips `SeedData`. Can we add that to the sample in case someone is running outside of VS and doesn't get one  generated automatically?

>
> ```
> git clone --depth 1 --filter=blob:none https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples.git --sparse
> cd AspNetCore.Docs.Samples
> git sparse-checkout init --cone
> git sparse-checkout set security/authorization/BlazorWebAppAuthorization
> ```

## Customize policy retrieval

The developer decides in advance how custom policies are named by inventing a naming scheme in a string format that's easily parsed to meet one or more requirements for each policy evaluation:

* The custom authorization attribute adopts the policy naming scheme.
* The custom policy provider adopts the same policy naming scheme.

For example, consider a minimum age naming scheme in the format `MinimumAge{AGE}`, where the `{AGE}` placeholder is any given age, for example, `MinimumAge21`. This naming scheme is easily identified by its prefix "`MinimumAge`" with an easily parsed string-based age ("`21`").

> The authorization attribute can be established before or after the custom policy provider is created. In this article's example of a minimum age policy provider, the attribute is shown in the [Custom authorization attribute](#custom-authorization-attribute) section before the example minimum age policy provider is shown in the [Minimum age custom policy provider example](#minimum-age-custom-policy-provider-example) section. In practice, however, these classes can be created in reverse order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Nit: I don't think this really adds anything, and it interrupts the transition from the shared naming scheme to the policy provider APIs. Hopefully it's pretty obvious you can define the attribute and policy in either order, but neither makes sense without the other.

* The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationPolicyProvider.GetFallbackPolicyAsync%2A> method returns the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationOptions.FallbackPolicy%2A?displayProperty=fullName> when no authorization metadata (for example, no `[Authorize]` attribute or `RequireAuthorization()`) is explicitly provided for a resource. The fallback policy only applies when there are no authorization attributes or explicit policies set. If a resource has an `[Authorize]` attribute (even without a policy name), the default policy is used instead of the fallback policy. This means fallback policy is mainly relevant for middleware-based authorization flows where no per-endpoint authorization is specified. By default, fallback policy is `null`, meaning it has no effect unless explicitly set.

The general format of a custom policy provider that either returns a policy for a given matching name (represented by the `{IDENTIFY POLICY BY NAME}` placeholder) or returns `null` when no policy name matches is similar to the following:

```csharp

> internal class CustomPolicyProvider() : IAuthorizationPolicyProvider

Reviewer 2: Nit: This type doesn't fully implement `IAuthorizationPolicyProvider`. Can we include a source comment here indicating that `GetDefaultPolicyAsync` and `GetFallbackPolicyAsync` are intentionally omitted for brevity? I see we have a complete `MinimumAgePolicyProvider`  just a little bit below, but it might still be worth calling this out.

{
    public Task<AuthorizationPolicy?> GetPolicyAsync(string policyName)
    {
        if ({IDENTIFY POLICY BY NAME})
        {
            var policy = new AuthorizationPolicyBuilder(
                IdentityConstants.ApplicationScheme);
            policy.AddRequirements(...);

            return Task.FromResult<AuthorizationPolicy?>(policy.Build());
        }

        return Task.FromResult<AuthorizationPolicy?>(null);
    }
}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > Use of <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Identity.IdentityConstants.ApplicationScheme%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> in the preceding example represents the scheme used to identify application authentication cookies. If schemes are omitted, the policy applies to all schemes.

Reviewer 2: I think the "If schemes are omitted, the policy applies to all schemes" is misleading. An empty `AuthenticationSchemes` list evaluates requirements against the default schemes. It doesn't authenticate every registered scheme. Can we use that wording here and update the related bullet at line 218?

```csharp
public Task<AuthorizationPolicy> GetDefaultPolicyAsync() => 
    DefaultPolicyProvider.GetDefaultPolicyAsync();
```

Any of the following <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder> methods can be used for the custom policy provider's requirements and assertions in its <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationPolicyProvider.GetPolicyAsync%2A> method:

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.AddRequirements%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireClaim%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireRole%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireUserName%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireAssertion%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireAuthenticatedUser%2A>

> A custom policy provider can optionally implement the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationPolicyProvider.GetFallbackPolicyAsync%2A> method to provide a policy to use when [combining policies](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicy.Combine%2A) or for middleware-based authorization flows where no per-endpoint authorization is specified. In the following example, the fallback policy combines:

Reviewer 2: `GetFallbackPolicyAsync` is required. Choosing a non-null fallback is optional. `CombineAsync` only asks for it when no policy was built from metadata or endpoint policies, so I think the "to provide a policy to use when combining policies" is a little misleading.

The example then manually combines two policies. Can we separate those concepts and say all combined requirements must succeed? That would address #19611.

<!-- DOC REVIEWER NOTE: The preceding cross-link inserts the following code.
                        The following code will be removed prior to merging
                        the PR.
-->

```razor
@page "/pass-minimumage21-policy"

<h1>Pass 'MinimumAge21' policy (weakly-typed approach)</h1>

<p>
    Uses an AuthorizeView component to apply the policy using the policy's name. 
    This approach is shown for demonstration purposes and isn't recommended for 
    production code.
</p>

<AuthorizeView Policy="MinimumAge21">
    <Authorized>
        <p>You satisfy the 'MinimumAge21' policy.</p>
    </Authorized>
    <NotAuthorized>
        <p>You <b>don't</b> satisfy the 'MinimumAge21' policy.</p>
    </NotAuthorized>
</AuthorizeView>
```

The following component uses the strongly-typed [custom `MinimumAgeAuthorizeAttribute` implementation](#custom-authorization-attribute) described in the [Custom authorization attribute](#custom-authorization-attribute) section. Using a strongly-typed attribute is recommended for production apps.

`Components/Pages/PassMinimumAge21PolicyWithAttribute.razor`:

> :::code language="razor" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/BlazorWebAppAuthorization/Components/Pages/PassMinimumAge21PolicyWithAttribute.razor":::

Reviewer 2: The policy check works, but the sample's cookie redirects anonymous and underage users to `/Identity/Account/Login` and `/Identity/Account/AccessDenied`. Neither endpoint is mapped, so both flows end on a 404. Can we configure the cookie paths to the sample's account components before using it as the working example?
